now the potential for the conflict to
spread is even more evident in southern
Lebanon where Hezbollah militants in
Israel have been involved in crossb
clashes since October the 7th on Tuesday
Israel released a video of what it says
was a strike against a senior Hezbollah
Commander Israel says Ali Hussein bargi
was in charge of hezbollah's drones in
southern Lebanon also on Tuesday large
crowds turned out for the funeral of
another senior Hezbollah leader killed
in an Israeli air strike in southern
Lebanon on Monday
for more I'm now joined by DW's abas
Alkali who is reporting from Beirut for
us so Israel says it has killed senior
Hezbollah Commander Ali Hussein Bari in
a strike however Hezbollah denies this
how important is he
actually good morning Aron first I
cannot confirm or deny that the
commander ofah was killed some website
in leanan have confirmed this
information but Source sources from
hisbah have denied it hisbah usually
Mourns any of its Fighters or commanders
killed publishing reports and photos
about them uh as we saw in the last few
weeks as example however the hisbah
public relations website denied this
claims stating that the commander was
never subjected to any assassination
instead referred to him as a commander
of the Drone unit indicating that he is
one of the most important military
commanders in hisbah hisbah often
maintains secrecy regarding to its
officials names or informations is a
part of a long standing strategy
sometimes names emerge after their death
so it seems bargie fate is still is
undetermined um now turning to the
political side lebanon's prime minister
said that he is ready for talks on
long-term stability with along the
country's Southern border with Israel
but he could but could he pressure
Hezbollah on that
uh look the internal situation and the
economy in Lebanon are on the verge of
collapse right now the states is
suffering from inflation and the people
Lebanon are tired of frequent crisis the
factors makes hisbah think twice before
escalating the conflict in the south
hisbah is aware of this the Secretary
General of hisbah Hassan nah has
mentioned in his speech several times
that he understand the internal
situation situation in Lebanon it's not
a secret that there are a kind of
coordination between hisbah and the
government in
leanan that was DW's abas Alkali
reporting for us from Beirut thank you
very
much thank
you in the next few hours US Secretary
of State Anthony blinkin is due to meet
with Palestinian leaders in the occupied
West Bank blinkin reiterated us support
for Israel during talks on Tuesday with
senior Israeli leaders but he also urged
Israel to reduce the toll of the war on
civilians in Gaza Israel has vowed to
destroy Hamas which is classified as a
terrorist organization by the US EU and
other
nations Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin is calling for Cal in the region
to prevent the war in Gaza from
spreading nice to see you blink held
talks with prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu Washington is trying to
balance support for Israel with limiting
civilian suffering blinkin emphasized
the need to protect the people of Gaza
and increase Aid we know that facing an
enemy that embeds itself among civilians
who hides in and fires from schools from
hospitals makes this incredibly
challenging but the daily toll on
civilians in Gaza particularly on
children is far too
high 3 months of fighting have left Gaza
devast stated and thousands of gazans
dead blinkin called on Israel to start
planning for peace he said it must do
more to support moderate Palestinian
leaders to Halt new settlements and
Stamp Out settler violence it's our
unique Bond and America's enduring
commitment to the people of Israel that
allows indeed demands that we as
forthright as possible in the moments
when the stakes are highest when the
choices matter the most this is one of
those moments
the role of Iran has raised those Stakes
defense minister yav Galant said
increasing the pressure on Tran was
critical to preventing the war from
spreading Iran which backs Hamas
supports a network of militant groups
throughout the
region houi rebels in Yemen have
attacked and seized ships in the Red
Sea Hezbollah forces in southern Lebanon
are firing rockets at
Israel while in Iraq and and Syria
militants aligned of Iran have attacked
US troops with rockets and drones we're
determined again that we uh not see
escalation that we don't have the
conflict spread uh and we've made that
very clear uh but of course if our
Personnel if our forces are are
threatened or attacked we'll take
appropriate steps we'll
respond blinken will continue his Tour
on Wednesday he due to travel to the
occupied West Bank for talks of
Palestinian president Mahmud
abas DW's Tanya Kramer joins us now from
Jerusalem for more so Tanya the US
Secretary of State has been trying to
calm thing down in the region is there
any indication that he's having
success well all we can say he certainly
comes at a critical time and as we heard
in the report now 3 month into the War
uh in Gaza but also heightened tensions
between Israel and has BAH on Israel's
northern border with Southern Lebanon
but also in other regions like with the
yemeni houis in the Red Sea so uh we've
heard again from um US Secretary uh
Anthony blinkin that he's pushing to
scale down the intensity of the strikes
uh in Gaza saying the daily toll on the
civilian population in Gaza is far uh
too high he also said that he's pushing
for this uh uh uh an assessment mission
uh to Northern Gaza of the United
Nations to see uh when uh Palestinian
residents had to flee or had to evacuate
to the uh Southern Parts could uh come
back uh home now uh the Israeli military
on the other hand had announced that
they are uh changing their combat
tactics in the north uh of Gaza uh but
they would be
intensifying uh uh their offensive in
the sou especially around the city uh of
KH Yunis and on the other front in the
North we're hearing uh from the United
States uh from uh Anthony blinkin that
he said that he would push for a
diplomatic solution to find a diplomatic
solution uh um uh between uh Hezbollah
and uh uh Israel but uh having seen you
know in the past weeks uh there have
been a lot of crossb attacks this has
been intensifying so it's still to see
uh whether this will work out and if we
could stay with the Diplomatic solution
for a second Anthony blinkin also called
for the realization of a Palestinian
State when the war is over however
that's something Benjamin Nan yahu has
rejected in the
past well this is certainly something
that the United States and Israel at
least with this government uh are not on
the same page uh prime minister Benyamin
nanyu has said time and time and again
that he does not support a Palestinian
the creation of a Palestinian State and
that is also uh certainly uh um what you
can say of his far-right religious uh
Coalition Partners in this government uh
Benin even said he had be rented a
Palestinian state but Anthony blinkin
made it very clear he has talked to
Regional leaders uh especially also uh
he held talks in Saudi Arabia and that's
a bit connecting the dots before October
7th there was talk about a potential
normalization between those two
countries but he has made clear that
those Regional leaders only see a
pathway uh you know for peace and
Security in the region if there's a way
to Palestinian State and that Israel
would have to make hard choices that was
DW T Crea in Jerusalem thank you very
much for your
reporting